### About - ASIC Design-Flow based Project
Optimization Design of IIR Filter using Application Specific IC Design Flow and Design Space Exploration Techniques with Modern Optimization Methods and High Level Synthesis HLS Design Flow.

With the evolution of electronic devices, the demand for sophisticated high performance, low area and low power consumption Application Specific Processor (ASP) is ever increasing, which aims to process a particular functional application. This project focuses on the design of IIR Butterworth Filter, which is used to demonstrate the High-Level Synthesis (HLS) design flow providing the general comprehensive diagnostic pathway to design the same. 
This project will proceed using the help of Verilog HDL for coding purposes. The optimised variation for IIR Butterworth filter is found using Design Space Exploration DSE Techniques. The most optimised variant result based upon (hypothetical) least of each area, no of resources and time is designed and simulated using Hardware Descriptive Language (here Verilog). Demonstrated implementation of Optimised and Unoptimised Variant's Verilog Code Files

Application Specific Processors or Circuits are widely used in case of specific process or application has to be implemented. These circuits are designed for aspecific application. Application Specific Processor (ASP) cores are being increasingly used to address the demand for high performance, low area and lowpower consumption in modern embedded systems. Thus, high constraints lead to increasing complexity. And increasing complexity leads to variants of solution forthe same problem.So based upon the above mentioned and Modern-DSE Design Space Exploration Methods, this project aims to design an optimised ASP i.e design of IIR Butterworth Filter, in terms of Area, Time required and Number of Resources used.The final outcome of this project, the verilog code, aims to be synthesizable in nature, so the hardware unit designed would be an ASP that is ready to be synthesized on an ASIC.The report begins by describing the design problem, objective function, specifications and operational constraints. Then, it provides a preliminary design approach to the problem by providing possible variants with different combinations of resources used, with emphasis on data structures. The report also gives the theoretical background and provides a multiplexing scheme for different operators derived from the sequencing graph. It then describes the conversion to block diagram from multiplexing scheme. The report describes the design of Control Unit and gives the timing specification of control unit, symbolic representation and gives the development of HDL code from timing requirements. It is so done after converting the Butterworth filter equation from frequency domain to time domain. After which different variants are designed keeping in mind the parameters (resources, time and area). From which the most Optimized variant is selected and implemented. Finally it provides the analysis, evaluation and verification ofresults and at last, the Conclusion.


ASIC
It stands for application-specific integrated circuit. These are silicon chips designed for a very specific purpose, created to perform a repeated function very effectively rather than general purpose chips which can perform an endless variety of functions, but less efficiently. It is an integrated circuit (IC) chip customized for a particular use, rather than intended for general purpose use.

Application Specific Processor
ASP has a fixed instruction set for a single purpose. It has the instruction set necessary to do so. It is never general purpose and for that matter can not perform some simple tasks if its instruction set does not support it. Its instruction set is specifically designed to accelerate heavy and most used functions. Its architecture is designed to implement the assembly instruction set with minimum hardware cost.

Why Verilog?
Verilog and reason for choosing it over VHDL: Verilog is a Hardware Description Language; a textual format for describing electronic circuits and
systems. Applied to electronic design, Verilog is intended to be used for verification through simulation, for timing analysis, for test analysis (testability
analysis and fault grading) and for logic synthesis. It has support for bidirectional primitives that make it better for ASIC verification. The preference of VHDL is reducing because it’s verification edge over Verilog is thoroughly replaced by SystemVerilog. Also, Verilog is already better in terms of RTL compared to VHDL.

For more details contact @abhaypawar on LinkedIn

The Project is based on HLS Design Flow, so if you're looking for complete implementation and with detailed simulation steps, stay tunned for debugged files.
